1. The present appeal has been filed impugning the
judgment dated 31.8.2007 of the High Court of Judicature at
Allahabad in Criminal Appeal No. 2003/1982 vide which the
conviction and sentence of Malkhan, Kallu and Mata Din was
upheld.

2. The incident took place on 27.3.1982 at about 3.10
p.m. On account of murder of Durga, FIR was registered against
the aforesaid three accused. The Trial Court, vide judgment dated

sonuevSuL982 convicted them under Section 302 IPC and sentenced to
RIRMALA

ee “indergo imprisonment for life. The judgment and order passed
by the Trial Court was upheld by the High Court.

3. The case of the prosecution is that the son of deceased
Malkhan, his grandson Kallu, along with one Mata Din committed
murder of Durga. Ram Prasad, Jaila and deceased Durga were
sons of Bharose. As per the material available on record, the
reason of fight is property dispute. As per the prosecution, on
27.3.1982, Mullu PW-1, Phoola PW-2, and Durga at about 6-7 a.m.,
had gone to Kawar Haar to cut the crops. They worked in the field
till around 11 a.m.-12 p.m.. At around noon, Malkhan, Kallu and
Mata Din, accused persons, came there armed with axe and sickle
and started cutting crops. On an objection raised by Durga to
their cutting the crops, Malkhan struck a blow on his neck by his
axe. When Durga fell down, all three accused persons started
inflicting blows to the deceased. As a result of the attack, he
died. (Post mortem report).

4. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that there
are good reasons to falsely implicate the appellant as the dispute
pertains to the ancestral land of the deceased Durga. He has also
alleged that Mullu himself has committed murder to usurp entire
property. The property in question being ancestral, the appellant
being the grandson, was to devolve upon him. For this reason, on
a complaint made by Mullu, PW-1, the appellant has also been

convicted, otherwise he had no role to play.

5. He further referred to the statement of Smt. Phoola,
PW-2, to submit that she was an interested witness. The accused
Malkhan & Kallu in the present case were landless labourers. PW-
2 was cousin sister of Mullu, PW-1, as well as Malkhan. She
wanted to settle in the village for which PW-1 and his father could
be helpful and not the accused party. He further submitted that in
a dispute related to a case of theft in which PW-2’s brother,
Jogeshwar, was involved, Malkhan had appeared as a witness
against Jogeshwar. She appeared as a witness in the case in hand
to settle the score. In view of the aforesaid discrepancies, the
conviction and sentence of the appellant cannot be sustained.

6. On the other hand, learned counsel for the State
submitted that it is a case in which brutal murder of Durga was
committed by none other than his son and grandson/appellant
along with Mata Din, on whose field Malkhan was working. The
root cause of the dispute was that the accused wanted to settle
the score for the reason that the deceased allegedly did not give
2 bigha land as agreed in the Panchayat. This is an eye-witness
account. In the presence of PW-1, son of the deceased, Malkhan
had given an axe blow on the neck of deceased who fell on
ground and thereafter all the three accused beheaded the

deceased Durga and severed head was thrown by them away

from the body. Thereafter they fled towards Chatela jungle. PW-
1 withstood the cross-examination. PW-2, Phoola was also an eye
witness to the offence. She had also withstood her stand in cross-

examination.

7. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the
paper book.
8. The ground raised by the appellant to challenge his

conviction is that he has right in the ancestral property. His
argument is that on account of this fact, he has been falsely
implicated in this case. However, the material which has come on
record suggests that the appellant along with his father Malkhan,
were living away from the family for the last 11-12 years. It is
their admitted case that Malkhan was ploughing the fields of
other co-accused Mata Din as they had been ousted from the
family. The motive of crime was clearly established. It was that
the deceased Durga had not given any share in his property to
the appellant and his father Malkhan. The statement made by
Mullu, PW-1, son of the deceased, who is eye witness to the
offence, had withstood the test of cross-examination. It has come
in evidence that the deceased had fallen on ground after one blow

of axe by Malkhan but still the other accused collectively

assaulted him. It is corroborated from the Post Mortem Report.
They even beheaded him and threw his severed head at a nearby
place. The manner in which murder of the deceased was
committed was gruesome. This shows their intention and criminal
bent of mind. It was a daylight murder with direct eye witness

account.

9. The argument that Mullu himself had committed
murder of the deceased to usurp the property is merely of
frustration. It has come in evidence that he was living with the
deceased whereas the accused party had a grudge that they had

been deprived of their share in the property.

10. Besides that the issue sought to be raised is that PW-2
was an interested witness, hence her statement should not be
relied upon. Informant Mullu is not only the son of the deceased
but also the real brother of Malkhan and the real uncle of
appellant, Kallu. PW-2 Phula is the cousin sister of both Mullu and
Malkhan. Therefore, the relationship of Mullu and Phula with the
deceased does not affect her credibility. Reference was sought to
be made of a case of theft against Jogeshwar, who is the brother
of Phula, PW-2. In her cross-examination, PW-2 was put a question

that the accused Malkhan had testified against her brother

Jogeshwar. However, it was merely a question put during the
cross-examination of PW-2. There is no document placed on
record to substantiate the plea that there was any dispute in
which accused, Malkhan had appeared as a witness. PW-2, Phula
is also an eye-witness of the incident. She also corroborated what
was stated by PW-1. There was no variation in the statements

made by them.

11. In view of the aforesaid material on record, in our view,
no case is made for interference in the present appeal. There is
no error in the judgment of the High Court. The appeal is
accordingly dismissed. The appellant was released on bail by this
court vide order dated 11.7.2014. He should surrender before the
trial court within two weeks from today to undergo the remaining

period of his sentence.