Delay condoned.

2. Leave granted.

3. The present Appeals are directed against the impugned order and
judgment dated 05.01.2017 passed by the High Court of Allahabad at
Allahabad (hereinafter referred to as “High Court”), whereby, the appeal
preferred by the appellants herein was dismissed.

FACTS

4. The relevant facts necessary for the adjudication of the present
appeals, for the sake of convenience, the Respondent State Government of
UP had issued a notification under Section 4(1) read with Section 17 of the
Land Acquisition Act, 1894 on 30.04.1993 whereby a large tract of land,
including the land of the appellants herein was acquired for the purpose of
Greater Noida. The declaration of the said lands under Section 6 of the Act
was issued on 25.06.1993, and the possession of the aforesaid lands was
taken on different dates between 13.08.1993 and 31.05.1994.

5. Subsequent to the possession of the said lands being acquired, the
Special Land Acquisition Officer, by order dated 27.08.1994, determined
the market value of the plots at three different rates i.e., Rs.32.52/,
Rs.22.44/- and Rs. 16.46/- paisa per square yard.

6. Aggrieved by the aforesaid award, the appellants herein sought
reference under Section 18 of the Land Acquisition Act and claimed
compensation at the rate of Rs. 350/- to Rs. 500/- per square yard on
grounds of parity to other lands acquired in the vicinity. The Learned
District Judge, in the aforesaid reference, vide its judgment dated
09.05.2002, determined the market value of the said lands at Rs. 400/-, but
deducted 1/3" amount for development charge, and fixed the market value
at Rs. 267/- per square yard and granted Rs. 80/- as solatium per square
yard with interest at the rate of 9% and 15% per annum, and an additional
compensation at the rate of 12% per annum on the market value with
effect from the date of transfer of possession.

7. As against this, the Respondent Greater Noida filed an appeal in the
High Court, to which the appellants herein filed their cross appeals seeking
a further enhancement.

8. Subsequently, the High Court, vide order and judgment dated
04.01.2017, confirmed the compensation determined by the Learned
District Judge. It is the contention of the appellants herein that the High
Court, while passing its judgment, did not consider the cross objections
filed by them.

9. The Appellants, aggrieved by the fact that their cross objection for
enhancement was not properly considered, filed a review, however, the
same was dismissed vide impugned order and judgment dated 05.01.2017.
Hence, the present Special Leave Petition.

10. For the sake of clarity, it is necessary to mention that the acquisition
of the land itself is not being challenged by way of the present appeals, and
the limited challenge is only confined to the extent of the quantum of
compensation granted for the acquisition of the said lands.

11. To appreciate the issue at hand and to come to a correct conclusion,
we must analyze the impugned order passed by the High Court, to see
whether there has been any application of mind by the High Court on the
cross objections filed by the appellants herein, and if such consideration
has not been taken into account, then to what extent can this Court grant
relief.

ANALYSIS

12. Order 41 Rule 22, which is the governing law in the present case,
elaborates on the remedies available to a respondent in the court of first
appeal where an original decree has been challenged. An analysis of the
said provision, in our opinion, is essential to adjudicate upon the present
case.

13. In cases where the decree passed by the court of first instance is in
favor of the respondent in whole, in such circumstance, no remedy exists
in favour of the respondent to appeal such decree, since no right to appeal
can be vested onto a party, which is successful.

14. However, in cases where the decree given by the court of first
instance, is partly in favour of the respondent, but is also partly against the
respondent, two remedies within Order 41 Rule 22 remain with the
respondent, which are (i) To file their cross objections and, (ii) To support
the decree in whole. A third remedy in law also exists, which is the right to
file a cross appeal, which will also be discussed in brief.

15. In cases where the opposing party files a first appeal against part or
whole of the original decree, and the respondent in the said first appeal,
due to part or whole of the decree being in their favour, abstains from
filing an appeal at the first instance, in such cases, to ensure that the
respondent is also given a fair chance to be heard, he is given the right to
file his cross objections within the appeal already so instituted by the other
party, against not only the contentions raised by the other party, but also
against part or whole of the decree passed by the court of first instance.

16. Ina similar circumstance, where the other party in the first instance
has preferred an appeal, apart from the remedy of cross objections, the
respondent can also file a cross appeal within the limitation period so
prescribed, which in essence is a separate appeal in itself, challenging part
or whole of the original decree, independent of the appeal filed by the
other party. The respondent also has the right to fully support the original
decree passed by the lower court in full.

17. In the present case at hand, the appellants herein, in the court of first
appeal filed a cross objection. It is the claim of the appellants herein that
his cross objection was not considered by the High Court while passing the
impugned judgment. At this stage, it must be noted that while cross
objections, unlike a regular appeal, are filed within an already existing
appeal, however, as per Order 41 Rule 22 of the CPC, cross objections
have all the trappings of a regular appeal, and therefore, must be
considered in full by the court adjudicating upon the same.

18. A bare perusal of the impugned order would show that the issues
raised by the appellants in their cross objections have not been considered
by the High Court. No mention of the cross objections filed by the
appellants herein have been found in the said judgment. While the High
Court has given a detailed analysis of all other issues raised in the appeal
and the both the lower court orders, however, the cross objections in
specific, finds no discussion, much less even a mention.

19. In the case of Santosh Hazari Vs. Purushottam Tiwari (Dead) by
LRs.', this Court held that the court of appeal has a duty to apply its mind
to all issues raised before it, and to discharge such duty, it must also record
its findings against all such issues raised. For the sake of convenience, the
relevant paragraph of the said judgment is being extracted herein:

"The Appellate Court has jurisdiction to reverse or
affirm the findings of the trial court. First appeal is a
valuable right of the parties and unless restricted by
law. the whole case is therein open for rehearing both
on questions of fact and law. The judgment of the
Appellate Court must, therefore, reflect its conscious
application of mind, and record findings supported by
reasons, on all the issues arising along with the
contentions put forth, and pressed by the parties for
decision of the Appellate Court.

While reversing a finding of fact the Appellate Court
must come into close quarters with the reasoning
assigned by the trial court and then assign its own
reasons for arriving at a different finding. This would
satisfy the Court hearing a further appeal that the First
Appellate Court had discharged the duty expected of it."

20. In the case of Madhukar and Ors. Vs. Sangram_and_Ors.', this
Court, while reiterating the principles laid down in the Santosh Hazari
Judgment (Supra), observed that the court of first appeal has a duty to
record its findings qua all the issues raised before it, and in cases where the
High Court fails to do the same, the matter must be remanded to the same
court again for fresh adjudication.

21. Further, in the case of Jitendra_Prasad Nayak Vs. Anant_kumar
Sah and Anr.', this Court, in an identical circumstance wherein the cross
objections filed by the appellant therein was not considered by the court of
first appeal, held that remanded the case back to the High Court and
observed as under:

"....Admittedly, a cross-objection was filed by the
appellant-landlord against the rejection by the first
appellate court of the existence of one of the two
grounds of eviction. However, while deciding the appeal
of the respondent-tenant in his favour against the decision of the first appellate court on the other ground,
the existance of the cross objection appears to have been
missed by the High Court with the result that there is no
decision given on the cross objection. The impugned
judgment cannot, therefore, be sustained inter alia for
this reason. We are also of the opinion that the question
relating to existence of the ground of bona fide need
which has been decided in favour of the tenant requires
a fresh determination by the High Court along with the
other point relating to default in payment of rent which
was the subject mater of cross-objection....... "

22. The abovementioned' discussions and judgments, when
contextualized to the present case, would show that the High Court was
under an obligation to consider the cross objections filed by the Appellants
herein. Since such an obligation was not discharged while passing the
judgment in appeal, we are of the considered opinion that the matter is fit
for remand to the High Court for fresh adjudication on the grounds raised
in the cross objections during appeal by the appellants herein. Accordingly,
the present appeals are therefore allowed to such an extent.